Kai Yu is currently a distinguished professor and doctoral supervisor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU), and the co-founder and chief scientist of AISpeech. He is a leading talent in scientific and technological innovation under the National "Ten Thousand Talents Program" and has received the Outstanding Young Scientist Fund from the National Natural Science Foundation of China and the title of Distinguished Professor of the "Oriental Scholars" program in Shanghai. He obtained his bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the Department of Automation at Tsinghua University and his Ph.D. from the Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge, UK. He has long been engaged in research and industrialization in the fields of intelligent speech and language processing, human-computer interaction, pattern recognition, and machine learning.

He has made a series of internationally advanced research, engineering, and industrialization achievements in speech recognition and synthesis, natural language understanding, spoken dialogue systems, and cognitive human-computer interaction. He has published over 200 papers in top-tier conferences and journals and has won best paper awards in prestigious journals such as Computer Speech and Language and Speech Communication, as well as best paper awards at top international conferences like Interspeech. He has achieved championships in several international evaluations for speech recognition and dialogue systems.

He is a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the first member of the IEEE Speech and Language Processing Technical Committee from a mainland Chinese university (2017-2019). He is an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing and has served as the Program Chair of international conferences such as Interspeech, and as the Area Chair for research areas of international conferences such as ACL and EMNLP.
