Liping Shen, Ph.D., Associate Professor, and director of the e-Learning Laboratory at Shanghai Jiao Tong University. Since 2001, she has been a member of the Educational Technology Subcommittee of the National Information Technology Standardization Technical Committee and has received the "20th Anniversary Outstanding Contribution Award" from the committee. She has served as an editor for the SCI journal Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Smart Environments. Her research primarily focuses on adaptive learning technologies, affective computing, and learning data analytics. She has led several National Natural Science Foundation projects and technology support projects. In recent years, she has published over thirty papers in domestic and international journals and conferences. Her paper "Affective eLearning: Utilizing Emotion Data to Improve Learning in the Pervasive Environment" won the Best English Paper Award from the Shanghai CCF Pervasive Computing and Embedded Systems Subcommittee in 2016 and has been cited over 500 times according to Google Scholar. She also holds one authorized patent, has been responsible for drafting four published national standards, and participated in drafting two published international standards. She is a co-convener of the series of standards for General Artificial Intelligence Models in Education and one of the main drafters of the series of standards for artificial intelligence models by the Shanghai Association for Artificial Intelligence Technology.
